Best Practices guide on upgrading Astro Runtime (#3767)
astronomer/docs: astro/best-practices/upgrading-astro-runtime.md

---
title: "Best practices for upgrading Astro Runtime"
sidebar_label: "Astro Runtime upgrades"

> description: "How to upgrade your version of Astro Runtime safely and rollback if necessary."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "A list of best practices to ensure that your Astro Runtime upgrades are safe and easy."
```

- Pinning the provider package versions in your current version of Runtime to ensure a stable upgrade path. This is a simple process involving a single command and, if necessary, modification of `requirements.txt` based on the output.
- Running upgrade tests to anticipate and address problems. This involves a single command that:

	- Compares dependency versions between the current and upgraded environments.
	- Checks DAGs in the project against the new Airflow version for errors.
	- Runs a DAG parse test with the new Airflow version.
	- Produces in new project directory `upgrade-test-<current_version>--<upgraded_version>`:
		- An upgraded `Dockerfile`.
		- `pip freeze` output for both versions.
		- A report with environment metadata and a Results table including any errors logged.
		![Astro Upgrade Test Report](/img/guides/astro-upgrade_test_report.png)

> 		- A Dependency Compare report listing the upgrades, additions and removals coming in the new Astro version and underlying Airflow package. For example, a "Major Updates" section lists the packages receiving new major versions, and a "Minor Updates" lists the packages receiving new minor versions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		- A Dependency Compare report listing the upgrades, additions and removals coming in the new Astro runtime version and underlying Airflow package. For example, a "Major Updates" section lists the packages receiving new major versions, and a "Minor Updates" lists the packages receiving new minor versions:
```
?

		```text
		Major Updates:
		azure-mgmt-datafactory 6.1.0 >> 7.0.0

		Minor Updates:
		Flask-Caching 2.1.0 >> 2.2.0
		```

> For more details about the `upgrade-test` command, see [Testing your Astro project locally](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/test-your-astro-project-locally#test-before-an-astro-runtime-upgrade).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about the `upgrade-test` command, see [Testing your Astro project locally](cli/test-your-astro-project-locally.md#test-before-an-astro-runtime-upgrade).
```

> ### Roll back Deployments after a broken upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Roll back Deployments after a broken upgrade

```

In the case of emergencies, you can roll back to your previous deploy to downgrade the Astro Runtime version. Astro's rollback functionality is similar to the Git `revert` command. Rollbacks revert project code only, keeping environment variables and other configuration unchanged. Also, downgrading erases any data related to newer features. For these reasons, Astronomer recommends using rollbacks only as a last resort.

:::danger

Astronomer recommends triggering Deployment rollbacks only as a last resort for recent deploys that aren't working as expected. Deployment rollbacks can be disruptive, especially if you triggered multiple deploys between your current version and the rollback version. See [What happens during a deploy rollback](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/upgrade-runtime#step-3-optional-run-upgrade-tests-with-the-astro-cli:~:text=What%20happens%20during%20a%20deploy%20rollback).

:::

:::tip

The `upgrade-test` command can also be used to test the current Runtime version against a _downgraded_ version.

:::

## See also 

> - [Upgrade Astro Runtime](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/upgrade-runtime#step-3-optional-run-upgrade-tests-with-the-astro-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Upgrade Astro Runtime](upgrade-runtime.md#step-3-optional-run-upgrade-tests-with-the-astro-cli).
```
